# Recognition of Mycobacterial Cell Wall Components by Langerin and the Ligand Recognition Differences between Human and Murine

## Abstract

Langerin is a pattern recognition receptor expressed especially on Langerhans cells in the skin but also found in several other organs such as lung and gut epithelium, as well as spleen in mouse and human tonsil. Langerin is a type II transmembrane C-type lectin receptor characterized by the presence of a calcium-containing sugar binding domain. Langerin is known to have a role in degrading viral particles such as HIV, Influenza A, and measles virus. It is also reported to be able to recognize pathogens such as Mycobacterium leprae and fungi which are then presented to T helper cells. Molecularly, langerin captures antigens through its carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD). The recognition of ligands by langerin is quite interesting as it is also able to bind ligands independently of its CRD through its neck region. 
One of the pathogens known to interact with langerin is Mycobacterium tuberculosis. To search for ligands from this micro-organism, we utilized reporter cells expressing langerin-CD3 chimeric receptor and report the activation upon ligand binding by NFAT-GFP. We found that human and murine langerin are able to recognize Mycobacterium tuberculosis and also Mycobacterium bovis BCG by our system. Next, we extracted lipid-soluble components from BCG. This extract was able to activate human and murine langerin reporter cells. Further fractionation allowed us to find that human and murine langerin are activated by different types of ligands. Human langerin was able to recognize mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan and phosphatidylinositol mannosides. Surprisingly, murine langerin did not recognize any glycan ligand in the fraction. Mycolate and cardiolipin were found to be able to activate murine langerin reporter cells. Our data suggest that langerin may recognize other ligands besides glycan and further analysis could help us understand langerin-ligand recognition mode and how to target langerin for several purposes such as antigen delivery.

